I got a question from ask yourself via
email that's the name of his YouTube
channel as self and he was just asking
in general whether or not I ever debated
meat eaters on my channel he actually
used the term car nests so tar nests
suggest that as an ideology you actively
believe in and defend meeting and I said
you know no I don't I haven't but it's
mostly because I invite all kinds of
people on the channel and we find out
who accepts to find out who's into it
friend who's not on a case-by-case basis
there are a lot of vegans who openly say
they find me too intimidating they don't
want to be on the channel they were
afraid to chat with me and I assume that
most people you meet would also no one
talked to me but the question for me
sparks a kind of broader more
interesting topic to reflect on which is
the difference between these so-called
debates that are now popular on YouTube
between meat eaters and vegans and what
real debates in real life are like when
I talk to people who who really eat meat
first and foremost when I talk to people
in real life I have mentioned this at
some point the Channel two years ago or
something
most the time those people are talking
to me not because they're interested in
veganism but because they're interested
in me they're interested in who I am
they were interested in what I'm do with
my life and why I do it so I was just
chatting with my girlfriend here about
this if you asked me why have I had so
many conversations about veganism with
co-workers or at university with other
students and professors I would say
first and foremost it's because those
people find me intriguing or there's
something about me they don't understand
there's something they want to you know
know more about they want to dig into
about me obviously even within Buddhism
when I was a scholar of Buddhism most
scholars of Buddhism eat meat it's not
only not vegan they're not vegetarian so
those issues give them all the time
within Buddhism but I mean conversation
would say a co-worker from one
heterosexual man to another just say as
the scenario obviously sometimes doctor
women sometimes dr. gay men but most of
those conversations would be really
short really reflective really serious
really taciturn
but you know person would ask me about
being vegan I give my answer and then
they'd sit there kind of looking at the
floor saying yeah yeah you know I mean
like that's the kind of response you
often get is people being thoughtful
taking it seriously having nothing to
say back to you you know what I mean and
it's so different from what the
theatrical over-the-top format of
youtubers sitting down and crossing
swords and coming up with one ridiculous
excuse after another for remediating or
saying oh well what percentage of people
get cancer from drinking milk and this
kind of thing yeah yeah when I told my
co-worker that I didn't eat eggs because
I had bought a cake for her birthday and
I it was a vegan baked vegan cake and
you know I said I don't use eggs and jsy
and once I explained she said she had
never thought about it and that was
really like the end of the conversation
and she just said yeah so yeah and she's
she's in her 60s one of the most surreal
and extreme examples I was actually in a
UH yeah I'm gonna say a fitness shop one
of these shops that sells bodybuilding
bodybuilding protein see like the whole
showing 90% with the garbage add yeah
yeah but like shelves and shelves of the
bodybuilder protein they have a few
other products but like they don't sell
wait wait equipment or ever since mostly
mostly cell phones and this guy came out
and talked to me and he was super hyped
up to pitch me you know do a sales pitch
I guess he didn't recognize me I didn't
remember me but I had actually talked
him before in that shop and he came up
to me and sweet music a bit stranger and
he was trying to sell me you know these
these protein supplements that are
variously based on way and knowing you
know there's also a fad for a while on
blood protein cow cow blood yeah because
cow blood is a waste product of the meat
industry and you know they make it into
fertilizer another stuff but anyway and
at the time I knew some particular
factoid about whey protein several the
vegan doctors like to really lay into it
as like proven to cause cancer or
whatever I don't know if I said look you
know
this way protein amiss it's really
unhealthy and you know and I forget if
it was that I said it caused cancer or
some other specific fact I did mine and
the guy said to me and he was all kind
of piped up and cheery he came out came
bounding up the door try to pitch me
these you know various meat-based twenty
supplements and he said well but that's
the thing isn't it everything does like
everything causes cancer everything's
better for you oh yeah yeah and I said
to cancer anyways great no but this is
think so I said to him I didn't respond
in like a caddy or angry way I responded
you know in this kind of thoughtful way
after pause I was like you know I'm
vegan so you know nothing in my diet
does like but also I was thinking about
that way you know we kind of look up and
you're thinking like no look I don't
have any of these carcinogens your MUC
diet and he almost started crying he
became so upset he had that look on his
face it is again it's a little bit
different for heterosexual men and women
but he started get tears in his eyes
and he put his head down he turned
around he walked out of the room like
almost running he was he was so upset it
was really weird I mean it was really
weird but I think for him the cognitive
dissonance
he lives with is exactly that he's
selling stuff that he knows is unhealthy
as health food like I assume that's
attention that I assume he's not that
dumb he's not so stupid that he actually
thinks he's selling people a good
product you know you know is this wait
so you know I would guess it's also all
the issues of even gains like to talk
about where you know he knows the
reality is that steroids provide these
outcomes not these you know protein
powders and so on that was a really
really strand of a unique extreme
example of someone who's run away but I
just say most of I mean you think about
the word debate there are a lot of
issues political issues I really have
debated with people like like the First
Nations what's the future of indigenous
peoples what's the future of what's the
future of endangered languages like
curry in a jib way what's the future of
pally scholarship of Tarragona Buddhism
there are all kinds of religious and
political and other topics that debate
with people like but most the time with
veganism I think
so heavy and it cuts so close and people
live with such a sense of unresolved
guilt and responsibility and so on I
mean most of the time like you know Co
whether it's a co-worker or some of the
university or they come to you the
question and again the response is more
on the lines of you know yeah you know
like yeah that's right every time you
eat a hamburger somewhere a cow was
having its throat cut and they know it
and never really thought about it don't
really deal with it but you know so that
there is no debate you know I have
definitely debated with my with my
father about it yeah a lot many times
but it just never resolves and he's not
convinced yeah even reduce me I think I
mean one of the funny things I said this
tamada Tegan in response to my own
videos I use these examples like
cigarette smoking and seatbelts instead
of comparing veganism to the abolition
of slavery I tend to use these
down-to-earth pragmatic comparisons to
well let's compare it to getting laws to
wear seatbelts the step by step
eradication of cigarette smoking from a
society where you say we've only taken a
few steps on that road you know we're
far from having you know erases
cigarettes from our from our culture
society but you know I think one of the
other funny things that those causes
have in common with veganism unlike
slavery unlike well unlike many other
moral and religious and ethical
questions is that they're really based
on indisputable facts you know nobody is
debating whether or not cigarettes are
healthy like you know what and forget
the word healthy nobody is debating
whether or not cigarettes are good
because there's an ethical component to
it you know do do you give your own
children cigarettes and by the way I
heard that discussed and one of the only
populations that does you know Carina
ghibli people because they use tobacco
in religious ceremonies they do
sometimes give tobacco to children
so it's interesting comes up in that in
that context but you know seatbelts
again forget kind of healthy you forget
you know forget life-saving verses
number of deaths versus number of
injuries you know if you just use the
word good or seatbelts good you know
it's on this kind of level of
indisputable facts where there's nothing
to debate so that's interesting I mean
on this channel we do talk about a lot
of debates within veganism that I think
are important and ongoing and confusing
and you know they'll change the future
of the vegan movement the same way in
the last five years we've seen veganism
take on you know a bunch of different
directions and not make too much
progress any one of them that's okay
bit by bit you know we're like a can of
tomato soup rolling down a staircase you
know we make progress one way or another
you're not quite sure which way the cans
gonna fall but it's it's key is rolling
in this direction it out of a but yeah I
think I think it is funny because
framing veganism in terms of a debate in
terms of something meat eaters vegan or
sit in a rationally hash out that way
I don't see that at all I mean Karnas
side is going to be unreasonable right
it's really right with somebody that
can't be reasonable it you know I tried
many times you say that but Dora I
disagree in the following sense I think
the number one counter-argument is is I
don't care great right and I mean that
is with you that's why I always shift
the debate from dealing with facts again
I think the facts are on our side to
dealing with the question of what kind
of person are you what kind of person do
you want to be and you know what kind of
person am i you know like I know it's
really common to say I'm vegan for the
animals I don't say that I'm vegan
because of who I am because of the kind
of person I want to be you don't I mean
and again
I've made this comparison long ago but
like I don't refuse to use cocaine
because I don't want my money going to
support guerrilla warfare in Colombia
that is a legitimate reason to refuse
cocaine because you're paying money and
it's going to criminals and armed rebels
and what-have-you okay no the reality is
all to them we could say that we could
pretend that's why we don't use go I
don't use cocaine because the kind of
person I am and in future the kind of
person I aspire to be
you know so it's about me it's about Who
I am and most of the time we're talking
meters that's why they're talking about
veganism is because they're interested
in who I am again whether it's a
co-worker or colleague or what-have-you
and then the answer is you know
ultimately what I'm putting on them is
look there's a question of who do you
want to be what kind of price do you
want to be the person who makes the
excuse or says they just don't care
about the ecological aspects the ethical
aspects animal rights aspects and the
health aspects do you want to be the
person who has the heart attack who says
you don't care or do you want be the
person who's responsible for slitting
the cow's throat says I don't care so
again you're gonna stay in calm in those
situations - like for me it's it's
really hard just to have someone say
that they don't care it's like not care
right right but I think you see I think
that's I think that's is it what I'm
saying it's not debate like we're not
gonna debate whether or not I'm a
horrible person and whether or not
somebody else you do it I mean I give me
you know the word debate has to mean
something at some point we're not having
a debate anymore the question is what
kind of person do you want to be yeah
and I agree I think it is harder for
women in both ways because I also think
women are very cruel to other women
that's why couple times the video said
as one heterosexual man talking another
heard of sexual man I think that I am
very good at admissions for heterosexual
men don't like it when you them
they don't like it when you beat around
the bush they don't like when you're in
direct or snarky or what-have-you and
you know I've seen this you know with my
ex-wife and with other women and other
girlfriends what have you and you can
even see it on YouTube and I think I
think all the debates have been have
been pretty much meant no being gates to
debate with one woman with Roma
millennial right yeah but I think the
way that women talk about these issues
is different and the burden on women you
know the role in cooking and traditional
culture and everything else I think
there are many many ways in which it can
be harder if it's a woman with a female
colleague and just what the boundaries
are and so on because with me ultimately
like if it's a male colleague who's
bullying me you're pushing me around or
some things like dude do you want to
step outside yeah and I'm sorry to say
it but like again like you know we've
talked with us in difficult
that comes up often in my life you know
the indirect reality
the fact that like pieces in the shadow
of war and that good manners are in the
shadow of violence like all the time as
men dealing with men in the workplace or
in the school yard or have you but at
the same time that kind of keeps it this
straight and narrow I think a lot of the
times with women there it there isn't
that awareness of limits and women will
just be unbelievably cruel and insulting
and vile to one another you know again
in the workplace you know to start with
or at Thanksgiving you know what
Thanksgiving dinners you know and that
kind of thing work can get nasty pretty
quick ya know I haven't had that
experience usually just because I
haven't talked to very many people about
it you know the co-worker that I was
talking with is in her sixties and she's
a very nice person she didn't she didn't
she wasn't cruel or anything she just
really said she was genuinely asking why
and once I explained she said about it
she just really thought I were like you
know that the hens laying the eggs it
was natural and normal and they it's
just take day I guess she really has
never seen footage like you know so you
know do the flip side of this I mean you
just said in there that she's never
thought about it we saw a video from a
very very fat guy very very guy who had
converted to veganism and he said of
himself that before he watched this
movie he had just never thought about it
he never thought about where meat comes
from basically I've got to say for me
again ultimately the problem there is
not where meat comes from the problem is
what kind of person are you what kind of
new book who who who gets to the age of
50 maybe he's 40 I don't know I know who
gets the age of 40 never thinking about
where milk comes from or never thinking
about where hamburger meat comes from
you know really let you know now again I
think he's being sincere I don't think
that guy's lying he seemed to me
completely sincere and just saying he'd
never thought about it but like dude
that says something about you
intellectually that says something about
you morally that says something about
you and if you if you fundamentally
lacked the sense of curiosity the sense
of moral responsibility you know sense
of awareness I don't know what other
nails and additives to throw in here
whatever it is you're lacking I think
you've got to examine who you are or who
you were as a younger person and now in
the future what kind of person you know
do you want to be yeah the things that
came up that she said that she had not
thought about one was yeah she asked if
I if I liked chocolate because they had
some some dessert for my boss's birthday
yeah it was also not vegan so I couldn't
eat it anyway but we were talking about
chocolate because she really likes
chocolate and and I was saying you know
I I usually don't eat chocolate because
of the human rights violations that
hasn't happened and you know there is a
list online of Fairtrade certified and
that thing that type of certification
but even then you know I don't I don't
eat much chocolate anyway but anyway um
yes there was another thing that she
said she had not thought about and also
my winter coat that I bought right also
she got an old ultra ethically sourced
winter coat yeah did they they actually
show video of the factory the labor
conditions Sonia right so yeah - two
things that you know I don't know if
it's just now this generation of people
that are coming up there they're more
aware of these these issues or if if it
really is just something that no or they
believe they just believe everything is
is ethical like you know they buy into
the lies that the desert if we were
having this question in 1970 with a much
larger camera filming it the reality is
that that discourse was dominate was
dominated by communists communism and
socialism
you know those questions of where did
things come from how were they made
factory conditions those were huge huge
political and ethical issues but they
were weaponized by the far-left now I
think they still are I think you know my
colleague here on YouTube privilege
vegan I think she's trying to play the
same game of trying to turn that into
what I'm going to say a political weapon
or you know she's trying to make
propaganda Oh to these kinds of isolated
facts about capitalism and sorrow so
that that still goes on but no I think
there's a fundamental human impulse to
ask and all children do I did it every
day as well where does this come from
I was the man I was interested in how
boxes were made you know what where does
a cardboard box come from what is this
you know the sole fundamental human
nature with the exception of maybe
children that are severely now
I've worked with children a
little bit like if you're only
moderately as a child that you
still ask those questions Sean I mean
it's pretty pretty close to the core of
human nature and pretty close to
universal so no I can't I can't really
excuse any generation you know from from
lacking that that that basic engagement
with reality right hmm okay so that's it
I mean I think you and I both I mean
there's no reason to divide vegans into
camps but I think there is a sense which
you and I both you know don't think the
future of veganism is going to be
defined by debate you know it's not
something can be won or lost in in
debate and you know and that's okay I
think there are a lot of questions you
know within veganism that we really need
to debate you know whether it's
vivisection or pet ownership
what-have-you but talking about these
issues that other vegan channels you
know other vegan channels focus on
trying to get people to turn vegan yes
and or you know pandering to audiences
who are already begun and they want to
you know just discuss with each other
why a pecan diet is so healthy and
wonderful yeah but your channel actually
talks about these issues and but you
know it's worth debating all the others
right I mean you were like just in
conversation did a couple of different
kind of bright lights from veganism came
up I mean these different these
different books coming in out of fashion
the skinny diet that was a big
deal I think about five years ago I
would say a peaked five years ago
obviously the books still around
you know dr. Gregers how not to die
these different kind of you know
approaches to veganism come and go and I
do think I mean I think basically
fundamentally I want to learn from both
the successes and the failures of the
different you know steps taken by vegans
in different directions and there's a
lot of debate that goes into that but in
terms of my interactions with meat
eaters in my own family in the workplace
at university because I'm still I've
spent a lot of my time in universities
still a university student in some sense
you know
it's for me it's not something debatable
it's not sinking win or loser debate and
ultimately it's not even both veganism
and it's not even boat eating meat
it's about Who am I who are you what
kind of person you want to be and that's
why they're talking to me ultimately
they want to get to know me and so you
know whether you're positive or negative
because you can talk about these things
in an honest way that's really dark you
know but you know remember you're not
really introducing veganism you're
introducing yourself